EDU-14599 Use case: Implementing custom newsletter analytics events (#1824)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/faststore/docs/sdk/analytics/use-case-implementing-custom-newsletter-analytics-events.md

            },
            "icon": {
              "title": "Icon",
              "type": "string",
              "enumNames": ["CircleWavyCheck"],
              "enum": ["CircleWavyCheck"],
              "default": "CircleWavyCheck"
            }
          }
        },
        "toastSubscribeError": {
          "title": "Toast Subscribe Error",
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "title": {
              "title": "Title",
              "description": "Message Title",
              "type": "string",
              "default": "Oops."
            },
            "message": {
              "title": "Message",
              "description": "Message",
              "type": "string",
              "default": "Something went wrong. Please Try again."
            },
            "icon": {
              "title": "Icon",
              "type": "string",
              "enumNames": ["CircleWavyWarning"],
              "enum": ["CircleWavyWarning"],
              "default": "CircleWavyWarning"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```

</CH.Code>

</CH.Scrollycoding>

### Synchronizing the new section with the Headless CMS

> 1. In the terminal, run `yarn cms-syn` to synchronize the new section you created with the CMS.

Reviewer: **sugestão**: Aqui também acho importante alertar para a pessoa selecionar a conta VTEX correta daquele projeto, mas de qualquer forma quando rodar o comando automaticamente vai ser feito o `vtex login <ultima-conta-utlizada>`.

```suggestion
1. In the terminal, run `yarn cms-sync` to synchronize the new section you created with the CMS.
```

        <NewsletterForm ref={formRef} onSubmit={onSubmit}>
          <NewsletterHeader
            title={title}
            description={description}
            icon={
              <Icon width={32} height={32} name={icon} aria-label={iconAlt} />
            }
          />

          <NewsletterContent>
            {displayNameInput && (
              <InputField
                id="newsletter-name"
                required
                label={nameInputLabel ?? "Name"}
                inputRef={nameInputRef}
              />
            )}
            <InputField
              id="newsletter-email"
              type="email"
              required
              label={emailInputLabel ?? "Email"}
              inputRef={emailInputRef}
            />
            <NewsletterAddendum addendum={privacyPolicy} />
            <Button variant="secondary" inverse type="submit">
              {loading ? subscribeButtonLoadingLabel : subscribeButtonLabel}
            </Button>
          </NewsletterContent>
        </NewsletterForm>
      </Newsletter>
    </Section>
  );
}

export default CustomNewsletter;
```

</CH.Code>

---

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### `NewsletterProps`

Defines the customizable properties of the newsletter.

- `title`: Heading of the newsletter.
- `description`: Subtitle or description text.
- `emailInputLabel`: Label for the email input field.
- `subscribeButtonLabel`: Text for the submit button.
- `toastSubscribe`: Configurations for the success popup.
- `toastSubscribeError`: Configurations for error popup.
- `privacyPolicy`: Legal disclaimer text.
- `card`: Whether the newsletter should appear in a card-style container.
- `colorVariant`: Styling theme (e.g., "primary", "secondary").

```tsx CustomNewsletter.tsx focus=37:54
```

---

```

> ### Create the section `index` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---
#### `onSubmit` function

Handles the newsletter subscription process.

- `event.preventDefault()`: Prevents default form submission.
  - [`sendAnalyticsEvent`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/analytics-send-analytics-event): Tracks the submission attempt
    - The `onSubmit` function calls the `subscribeUser()` with email and name.
      - If successful:
        - Shows a success toast (`pushToast`).
        - Resets the form (`formRef.current?.reset()`).
      - If it fails, it shows an error toast.
  - `pushToast`: Displays temporary success/error messages.
  - [`sendAnalyticsEvent`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/analytics-send-analytics-event): Tracks user interactions.
    - `Submit Newsletter` event: Tracks the form submission attempt when the user clicks the `Subscribe` button.
    - `Submit newsletter success` event: Tracks if the subscription was successful.
  - [`useAnalyticsEvent`](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/analytics-use-analytics-event) hook: track and handle custom analytics events.

```tsx CustomNewsletter.tsx focus=89:132
```

---

### Creating the section `index` file
```

To make the Newsletter section available in the project, create a file named `index.tsx` inside the components folder and add the following:

<CH.Code>

```tsx index.tsx
import CustomNewsletter from "./sections/CustomNewsletter/CustomNewsletter";

const sections = {
  CustomNewsletter,
};

export default sections;
```

</CH.Code>

---

> ### Style the new section

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Styling the new section
```

To add styles to this new section, create a `section.module.scss` file and add the following:

<CH.Code>

```scss section.module.scss
@layer components {
  .section {
    @import "@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Button/styles.scss";
    @import "@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Icon/styles.scss";
    @import "@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Input/styles.scss";
    @import "@faststore/ui/src/components/atoms/Link/styles.scss";
    @import "@faststore/ui/src/components/molecules/InputField/styles.scss";
    @import "@faststore/ui/src/components/organisms/Newsletter/styles.scss";
  }
}
```

</CH.Code>

---

> ### Update the CMS folder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Updating the CMS folder
```

> 1. In your store root repository, if you don’t have it already, create a folder named `cms`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the root directory of your storefront project, create a folder named `cms` if it doesn't already exist.
```

            "icon": {
              "title": "Icon",
              "type": "string",
              "enumNames": ["CircleWavyWarning"],
              "enum": ["CircleWavyWarning"],
              "default": "CircleWavyWarning"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
]
```

</CH.Code>

</CH.Scrollycoding>

### Synchronizing the new section with the Headless CMS

1. In the terminal, log in to your VTEX account by running `vtex login {accountName}`.

   > ⚠️ Replace `{accountName}` with the name of your account. For example, `vtex login store`.

2. Run `yarn cms-sync` to synchronize the new section you created with the CMS.
3. Go to the VTEX Admin and access **Storefront > Headless CMS**.
4. Click the **Home** Content Type.
5. In the Sections tab, click `+`, search for the new **Custom Newsletter** section, and add it to your page.

   ![analytics-custom-newsletter-cms-section](https://vtexhelp.vtexassets.com/assets/docs/src/analytics-custom-newsletter-section___96abd10dc72c4f09c15f71a9e42651d7.gif)

6. Delete the **Newsletter** default section.
7. Click `Save`.
8. Click `Preview` to preview the new section before publishing it to the live store.

## Results

> 1. Once you open the preview browser tab, open the **Console** of your browser’s **Developer Tools**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Once you open the preview browser tab, open your browser's **Developer Tools** and go to the **Console** tab.
```

> 2. Go to the newsletter section on the store page and complete the fields **Your Name** and **Your Email**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Go to the newsletter section on the store page and fill in **Your Name** and **Your Email** fields.
```
